---
title: "RE: RIAK Manchester Workshop"
description: ""
project: community
lastmod: 2018-10-03T11:07:37-0700
sitemap:
  priority: 0.2
layout: mailinglistitem
mailinglist_id: "msg18568"
mailinglist_parent_id: "msg18567"
author_name: "Martin Sumner"
project_section: "mailinglistitem"
sent_date: 2018-10-03T11:07:37-0700
---


Andrew,

It would be good at the Manchester workshop to talk about some of the work
we've been doing for the next release.

- A short reminder of the bugs and fixes that made it into 2.2.5 and 2.2.6;
- Report on the testing and production-readiness of leveled - Quviq's work
on property-based testing leveled, riak\_test and latest volume testing
results
- FSM and kv\_vnode changes to utilise HEAD requests
- Overview of TictacAAE and its production readiness as an alternative
anti-entropy mechanism

The above are all items, that at the NHS that we're looking to build
urgently into a release for our production systems. We could talk for a
long time about this, but hopefully can hold it down to one hour.

There's then some other items we've been working on, but aren't quite
release-ready at the moment:

- Soft-limits (aggressive vnode queue monitoring)
- Mapfold (range-based object folds)
- End-to-end repl replacement (and questions about whether some of the repl
control logic should be removed from such replacements)

There would be at least 30 minutes required to go through these changes for
information and feedback.

Another agenda item we would like, would be to have a discussion on how to
get the OTP 20/21 migration moving again.

Regards

Martin
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
riak-users mailing list
riak-users@lists.basho.com
http://lists.basho.com/mailman/listinfo/riak-users\_lists.basho.com

